>> Mike North: Over the next
two days we're going to learn
exactly where the line between
Typescript and JavaScript is.
At least right now, and I will try to
give you an idea of where it's moving.
Even going so far as to help you
understand various proposals to change
the JavaScript language like standard.
You're gonna see repeated use of these
little icons, the TypeScript and
JavaScript icons.
So TypeScript is, as we said, a strict,
or sorry, a typed superset of JavaScript.
So you can assume anything I'm
showing you in JavaScript,
it can be used in at least
in some form in TypeScript.
I do wanna show it to you in the regular
JavaScript way so that even if you're
watching this and you might want to use
something like Visual Studio code which
can use TypeScript to analyze your regular
JavaScript, I want you to know that.
This is not something you need TypeScript
for, it is a modern JavaScript language
feature and
then we'll go back to TypeScript only for
the types and for things that have no or
there is no signs the regular JavaScript
language will take on that feature.
So you should have a very good
understanding by the end of this, for
example that like, a sync and
wait, or generator functions,
or iterators, let and conts.
Those at one time were sort
of TypeScript things, and
now the JavaScript language
spec has those as well.
So by the end of this class,
you should have a good understanding for
exactly where the line is for
between modern JavaScript and TypeScript.
Over time, we're seeing that what used
to be TypeScript specific features,
they're making their way into
the JavaScript language specification.
This is happening more and more, and
there are even some proposals to
add things to the JavaScript spec
that seemed to be directly aligned with
stuff you can already do in TypeScript.
So that's when I was learning this
language a couple of years back,
this is something that I missed.
You'd read a TypeScript book or
you'd go through a tutorial and
there would be no sense of this is
where the regular language ends and
this is where the typed stuff begins.
So, I'm going to aim to help you
understand exactly where that line is.
Whenever you see a JS, little yellow
square in the upper right corner here.
That indicates that this could
be used both in TypeScript and
in regular JavaScript, right?
Or the most modern version of the spec,
not necessarily stuff that every browser
will understand, but one day it will.
If you see the blue TS logo in the top
right corner, that's something that you
have to run to the TypeScript
compiler in order to get new JS or
browser to understand,
usually that will involve types.
So today, we are going to do a couple of
isolated exercises that aim
to kinda get our feet wet.
Right?
Help us tackle a few
challenges where types can really make
things simpler and more expressive.
Tomorrow, we’re going to deal with
a larger project that involves handling
a synchronous code flow and
React components.
So we're gonna work with TypeScript and
React.
Don't worry if you don't know React yet.
We're gonna be using it
in a very simple way, but
it is a great example of a library
that has used the concept of types to
add some structural where previously,
you know it was sort of a free for all.
At least the way I wrote React,
it turned out I would add something
to props, or something to state.
And I would add it as needed and
the rest of
my code would not be aware that, hey this
new property is available, because there's
no clearly defined structure.
>> Speaker 2: The type definitions used
for TypeScript, are there similar
definitions using flow or
some of these paradigms could
they be translated into flow?
>> Mike North: Conceptually,
all of these should carry over,
one of the, so
something you can check out if you
choose there's a video visual studio
code course I taught earlier this week and
the video should be online now.
You can even use JS Doc comments to use
TypeScript looking types
in inert comments.
All comments are inert to provide type
information for regular JavaScript.
But it is great to see that all of these
different ways of expressing types
are very, very closely aligned.
And so, once you learn one,
it's a matter of kind of figuring
out what's the syntax for this other one?
The difference here, of course is,
this is not inert code.
This is a different language, right, and
as a result I think personally,
given the choice,
someone said write me some code for
a browser that has type information.
I would choose TypeScripts simply because
with comments you're limited to sort of
wrapping your types around
the code as best you can.
Whereas here, you can put it into the code
and it reads a little bit more better,
if that makes sense.
Reads a little bit better,
not more better.
So we will, we will very quickly see that
one of the things we've been missing
out on in the JavaScript world is the
ability to express our intent with types.
Anytime you've written a function
that takes in, like, as arguments,
two objects, that's not,
that is not expressive.
What are those objects?
What properties are allowed
on those objects?
What's optional and what's required?
And so now, we can say,
we can basically say upfront,
what's the form of this
objects that I wish?
What's the form I want them to take?
And we can catch that at compile time,
right?
Rather than catching it up run time feel
via bug report we'll get a build time,
red squiggle under a line of code.
One of the common mistakes people run into
when starting out with TypeScript is they
kinda add types everywhere.
And it's important to understand that
a type system is designed around,
it is a way of expressing constraints.
And there is a way to go to far.
It's like I would say the defaults path
will lead you to going too far and
you basically can sort
of lock yourself in and
find that you're wrestling against
these types rather than letting them
you know help you put guard
rails in the right places.
You know?
You don't wanna box yourself in.
You don't wanna over constrain your code.
So we will learn how to have a light
touch, and to basically only apply
type definitions where TypeScript can
figure things out for us automatically.
Finally, one of the core tenants
of the TypeScript project is,
you should be able to take
some regular JavaScript and
migrate to TypeScript relatively easily,
right?
So we will see how we can
incrementally start shifting
towards a Type Script code base.
This isn't, I don't want you to think of
this as, we're going to rewrite everything
in something like CoffeeScript,
which is a totally different syntax.
Coffee Script is not really
a super set of anything.
So we will hopefully get to see
how we can mix JavaScript and
TypeScript and
start with some flexible type definitions,
and then basically pay down tech debt by
tightening it up and tightening it up and
tightening it up and
then we'll end up with something that is
where we'd want it to be had we written
it in TypeScript from the beginning.